Internal (and public) documentation (#442)
scylladb-zpp-2024-javascript-driver/scylladb-javascript-driver: docs/src/internal/napi.md

# Napi (and napi-rs)

## Distinction

Node-API and napi-rs are two different things. When encountering just "napi" in the documentation (or PRs/issues),
what is meant in most cases is Node-API (although there may be some exceptions, especially in old docs).

> However, when you encounter napi in the code (mostly Rust code), this refers to napi-rs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node-API and napi-rs are two different things. When encountering just "napi" **in the documentation** (or PRs/issues),
what is meant in most cases is Node-API (although there may be some exceptions, especially in old docs).
However, when you encounter napi **in the code** (mostly Rust code), this refers to napi-rs.
```

In napi-rs there are different kinds of interfaces. Some of the interfaces napi-rs exposes are just 1-to-1 mappings from Node-API (mostly `napi::sys`).
Then there are low-cost abstractions over Node-API, like `(To/From)NapiValue` traits and `napi::Env`.

> Then there are high-cost interfaces. Some of those add overhead that we would need to handle on our own (like **sync** functions: functions with the `#[napi]` macro).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then there are high-cost interfaces. Some of those add overhead that we would anyway need to introduce (like **sync** functions: functions with the `#[napi]` macro).
```

> Others add high-cost overhead that we can avoid by using lower-abstraction-level approaches to achieve sometimes very significant performance improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Others add significant overhead that we can avoid by using lower-abstraction-level approaches to achieve sometimes very significant performance improvements.
```

When using structs from this macro, all fields are converted from JS to Rust. This means that when you have a struct with a high number of fields but use only a few of them,
you will still pay the cost of converting all unused fields.

### Casync (async bridge)

This is an open improvement that attempts to cut the very high CPU cost of synchronization in async functions.
You can see the benchmarks for this feature in [#414](https://github.com/scylladb/nodejs-rs-driver/pull/414).
TODO: finish this section once #414 is merged.

### JSResults

We use a custom JSResult for results that may end with an error. This replaces napi-rs Results, as those do not allow for custom errors.
We need custom errors since the errors returned by the Rust driver contain additional information. For now we just pass the error name.
We then need to use JSResult over regular Result since we cannot implement the ToNapiValue trait on a regular Result.
This complicates the code slightly but is the solution we found with the lowest verbosity.

## Typing

When you pass values between JS and Rust it's nice to have it typed in some way, to improve both readability and correctness of the code.

> When using napi-classes or node-built in type representations (integers, bigInt, arrays, results*, strings, buffers), in regular sync function,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using napi-classes or node-built in type representations (integers, bigInt, arrays, `Result`*, strings, buffers), in regular sync function,
```

Napi-rs will generate type annotations correctly in the `index.d.ts` file upon compilation of the code.

\* result type is not "visible" across, since napi-rs does not annotate what the function can throw, but is properly handled as a passthrough type.

> However, when using either (To/From)NapiValue, one of the helper macros or casync functions, you will need to do a bit more work to properly annotate the types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, when using either (To/From)NapiValue, one of the helper macros, or casync functions, you will need to do a bit more work to properly annotate the types.
```

> However, when using either (To/From)NapiValue, one of the helper macros or casync functions, you will need to do a bit more work to properly annotate the types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, when using either custom (To/From)NapiValue implementation, one of the helper macros or casync functions, you will need to do a bit more work to properly annotate the types.
```
